>> Kyle: All right,
let's move on to part 2 and
part 2 is the more sophisticated
of all three parts.
So we're gonna spend more time
on this one, and it's okay for
you to take some time to
try to figure this out.
Let me orient you to
what part 2 is saying.
It was a good start for
us to make an app module, but
that is not really fully embracing
what it means to modularize our code.
To really improve this code,
we really need to separate out
the concerns into their different pieces.
So we could make the observation that
there are at least three different
kinds of things happening
in this application,
three different categories of functions,
if you will, or functionality.
One category is a set
of stateless helpers.
For example, validateWorkEntry,
formatWorkDescription, and formatTime,
they don't rely upon any state at all.
You pass in some data and
you get some data back out.
They are stateless helpers.
They don't need any states, so
they don't need to be collected
into any particular module.
So why don't we make a helper's
namespace object for those to live on?
And by the way, there are some constants
that we have been including in our module
definition which actually
are stateless as well,
they are part of what the helpers do.
So those constants could be moved
to that namespace object as well.
>> Kyle: That's the first part.
The second part of part 2,
call it 2.b if you will,
is that we wanna separate
out the UI related,
the DOM related code from
the data model related code.
Right now, they're all conflated together.
When you look at a function,
it's doing both.
We wanna create as clean a separation
semantically between those as possible,
that's the most true
definition of abstraction.
Abstraction does not mean hide things,
abstraction means separate things, so
that they're independently reasonable.
So we wanna separate out the UI DOM
related code from the data
model related code.
I've made suggestions on how to do that.
First, we wanna make a function called
setup ui, which makes us a ui instance,
a ui module instance that has
the following methods on it,
in it, add project to list,
add project selection etc, and
then at the one we had before should only
keep the stuff that's data model related.
Now we'll have two separate modules,
two separate behaviors, and
they can call each other mutually.
App can call the UI, UI can call the App,
but we keep them in separate modules.
So your app module is gonna store stuff
like the state of the list of projects and
within each of those projects,
are the list of each of the work entries,
that's the data model oriented state.
That's what the app module does.
The UI module on the other hand,
needs to keep track of all the DOM
elements that it's creating.
So you don't want to store the DOM
elements in the data model, and
you don't want to store the data
model in the DOM elements.
So I make a suggestion
here that in the UI,
you wanna track all those DOM
elements in a separate list,
keyed by the ID of the data
model entry that they come from.
So the project id, the id that you would
look up the DOM element in the project
tracking object, same thing for
the work elements.
That's how you keep the data model and
the UI model separate,
a simple way of doing that, okay?
So take some time to make
sure you read through part 2,
because there's plenty of details here and
start working on that part of the project.
We are gonna give you extra time,
so 15, maybe up to 20, we'll see.
Give you some time to work on that
because this will take a bit more work.
You're gonna have to go in to a function,
and move some pieces out.
You really shouldn't have
to rewrite new logic, but
there will be functions where in the same
function, there's data model and UI stuff,
and you're gonna have to separate those
out and figure out how that works.
So this is where the nitty gritty,
this is where the rubber
meets the road if you will.
If you wanna be able to do modules,
you have to know how to do this
kind of refactoring, okay?